---
layout: post
title: Scenes from Starbucks
---

I was waiting in line to get my coffee. A man sitting at a square table with
his two kids made a remark about a sale at Macy's. He had his mouth full of
three dollar pastry, was wearing a five o'clock shadow, and informing his
uninterested kids of the commercial event with genuine zeal. He reminded me of
an extra from a fifties period piece, somehow fitted with updated clothing and
unknowingly displaced.

I began to look forward to enjoying a period piece set in my own time. I began
to look forward to, years later, sharing the nostalgia of today with the
generations who had lived through the early twenty-first century. Is communal
nostalgia the consolation prize that those who suffer through a time are awarded
afterwards?

Always children are in here. Funny how similar children all look from a distance
and how readily different adults are. Children start tabula rasa and their
differences are minute and can only be examined up close and pried with time.
Adults, having lived much longer and having chosen individually which parts of
childhood to erode away, are immediately distinct in their movements and
appearances. The kids all climb on the leathery Starbucks furniture and eat
confections and their parents play waiters, sometimes disgruntled but always
obliged.

As far as I can tell, there are no regulars. I haven't yet cycled through an
entire week at Starbucks (maybe I will have by the end of winter), but it seems
that each day's set of loungers is almost entirely disjoint from one another.

There is one exception. I have seen a lanky boy come in twice, always
under-dressed for the winter and wearing a hooded sweatshirt, with in-ear
headphones on. He has a long face, dark shaggy hair, wide eyes, and the bridge
of his nose looks strong. He looks furtive and he always takes the corner with
his head low. I passed him walking once also, on my way up to Reston Town
Center, him dug into a cell phone and me giving him a look. I wonder why he
spends so much time out of his house. Maybe he wonders the same thing about me.
He never stays as long as I expect him to.

Sometimes I catch little vignettes, meetings between two people who are
strangers to one another and have chosen Starbucks as the neutral, safe point of
transaction. One night, an hour before close and at the apogee of dim and
comfort for me, I saw one meeting. A man wearing clothing that looked circa
eighties and vaguely exercise-related bounded from the granite top of the
cream-and-sugar station to a table near the door. He took long strides toward
the table, which housed a steely, professional-looking woman wearing dark
clothing and brown hair. His anachronistic gear swished and he roared at her
happily and shakily with a Jewish lilt.  After making ten feet look like a quick
thirty, he reached the table, unruffled his feathers, and roosted across from
her.

The roar condensed into a thick hush as the woman cracked a black leather
notebook. The hush continued, but from it the rhythmic, syllabic thump of legal
jargon steamrolled across the room and knocked at my ankles. Occasionally,
nervous shots of laughter would stand up from their corner of the room; a signal
that indicates the intimation of details to a new acquaintance. A little later,
I looked up from my book and they were gone.

It isn't ideal or quiet, but it is where I get my caffeine and it is where I
avoid the loneliness of my bedroom.

